hi my name is Matt and I'm going to talk
to you today about metabolic typing
metabolic typing is a concept that
enables us to customize our diets and
our nutrition to our bodies it's based
on the idea that none of us are the same
and so just like we're all so different
on the outside and how we activate
differently and we're also very very
different on the inside so for example
we have very different varying sizes of
organs we have a different levels of
hormones and enzymes which can fluctuate
up to several thousand percent in
variation we also have different states
of health and function within our organs
within our glands within our cells of
the body and all of these things really
make us all very different and unique
and an internal level so what we find
that because of these differences and
that no two people are the same and
therefore our nutritional requirements
are also very different so metabolic
typing is really a nutritional science
that really enables us to understand
these differences and to and customize
our nutrition our diets to our metabolic
makeup and what I'll metabolic makeup is
what I mean by that is simply our
physiology and biochemistry of the body
or another way of looking at what what
I'm afraid to hear is just really up
sells or organs or glands are systems of
the body this is basically what I'm
referring to when I talk about
metabolism of or metabolic makeup so the
concept of metabolic typing isn't
actually new or certainly the idea of
individualized nutrition isn't anything
new since you've been around with us for
tens of thousands of years if we go back
tens of thousands of years hundreds of
thousands of years and look at our
ancestors we will find that the type of
ancestry or environment that our
ancestors have say the UK the US
Australia would have lived in the
northern European heritage would have
lived in an environment that would be
very much call it cooler temperatures
and for that reason plan and vegetation
would not have been so abundant and we
would have survived on diets much higher
in animal sources of food and what we
can say from that then is that our diets
would have been much higher in fat and
protein but in contrast to other
populations that may have been around at
the time that lived much near the
equator where the climate would have
been much warmer we would have found
that the diets would have been much
higher and plan and vegetation and also
for that reason much higher in
carbohydrates so that really
demonstrates the huge variation has
always existed and within the human race
in terms of the food that we'd eaten and
and then you know this isn't the only
factor that really again
fluence what foods are right for us
right now you know everything for my
exposure to medical drugs our diet and
lifestyle and exercise choices up till
this day going to have a big factor our
whole psychology or as a real big factor
on our in internal environment and
obviously there for our nutrition and
all our nutritional requirements so
another way of looking at this as well
is actually if we look at all the
different diets around today we can see
that there's everything from the Atkins
diet which is very high in fats and
proteins to other types of diets are
much lower in fat and you these so diets
going to be specific to weight loss
obviously there's lots of other types of
diets out there too but what you'll find
is that there be some people that
experience success losing weight when
they consume a high-fat diet and some
people when they consume a low-fat diet
and this is just another another example
at the huge diversity that exists so for
new again you know tells us just how
different we all are if you can relate
to what we've talked about so far and
interest in running a bit more about it
I'm actually going to be holding a
teleseminar fairly soon on in which I'll
cover much of this subject a lot more
about metabolic typing what it is the
science behind it how it can benefit you
and also really you how you can identify
using this this technology what what
foods are like for you so it i'll also
look lots of other factors which can
have a big impact on the foods really
right for you and going to bring you the
greatest return in health and well-being
so if you are interested then just check
out the link to the left hand side of
this video and you'll be able to sign up
to the call
so thanks for watching and I hope to see
you